Proposal for improved Helm-Manifest-Deployer (#768)
gardener/landscaper: docs/proposals/helm-manifest-deployer-ordering.md

## Uninstall Chart

### Current Status

Currently, when removing a Chart, the objects deployed by the chart are deleted in the following order:

- Namespaced objects deployed by the Chart
- Not namespaced objects deployed by the Chart
- CRDs deployed by the Chart

The algorithm does not wait until particular objects are gone before it continues deleting the next ones.The removal of 
a Chart is successful if all objects were gone. Objects not deployed by the Chart, e.g. custom resources (CRs) deployed
by some operator/job are not removed.

### New Solution

## Default Deletion Behaviour

We propose the following solution to have more control over the deletion process.

The basic order of deleting the deployed manifests remains the same as before and is divided into three deletion groups:

- Namespaced objects deployed by the Chart
- Not namespaced objects deployed by the Chart (except CRDs)
- CRDs deployed by the Chart

The deletion continues only with the next object/deletion group if all objects from the groups before are gone. This is 
different to the current approach. The deletion is tried as long until all objects of all 3 deletion groups are gone

> or the specified configurable timeout (default 5 min.) comes into the game and the deletion failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or the specified configurable timeout (default 5 min.) is expired and the deletion failed.
```

the other is processed. Thereby again, all objects of a deletion group must be gone before the deletion of objects of the next 
deletion group starts. This is tried until all objects of all deletion groups are gone (SUCCESS) or the timeout comes 
into place (FAILED). If you have specified your own deletion groups, the default deletion behaviour is completely disabled.

Custom deletion groups are defined in the section `deletionGroups` as shown below:

```yaml
deployItems:
  - name: my-deploy-item
    type: landscaper.gardener.cloud/helm
    config:
      apiVersion: helm.deployer.landscaper.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: ProviderConfiguration
      ...
      deletionGroups:
      - <deletionGroup-1>
      - <deletionGroup-2>
      ...
```

### Predefined Resources

The most simple specification for a deletion group is using predefined resource groups. The following example
shows how to specify the default deletion behaviour with 3 such deletion groups:

```yaml
deployItems:
  - name: my-deploy-item
    type: landscaper.gardener.cloud/helm
    config:
      apiVersion: helm.deployer.landscaper.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: ProviderConfiguration
      ...

>       deletionGroups:
>         - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>             type: namespaced-resources
>         - predefinedResourceGroup:
>             type: cluster-scoped-resources     # does not include the crds
>         - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>             type: crds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      deletionGroups:
        predefinedResourceGroups: 
          - type: namespaced-resources
          - type: cluster-scoped-resources     # does not include the crds
          - type: crds
```

Wouldn't this beaser to write and parse (as a human :-) )?

Author: resolved as discussed offline

```

Note that you can omit the section `deletionGroups` only if you accept the exact default behaviour.
As soon as you want to deviate from the default behaviour, you have to specify the `deletionGroups` list with all
items you want to be processed.

##### Example: skip deletion of CRDs

In this example, the deletion of CRDs is skipped:

```yaml

> deletionGroups:
>   - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>       type: namespaced-resources
>   - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>       type: cluster-scoped-resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deletionGroups:
  predefinedResourceGroups: 
    - type: namespaced-resources
    - type: cluster-scoped-resources
```

```

### Specific Resources

If you want to specify a deletion group specifying the deletion of particular resource types you could use the
following syntax where you specify the types of the objects which should be deleted in that deletion group:

```yaml

> deletionGroups:
>   - resources:
>       - group:   ...
>         version: ...
>         kind:    ...
>       - group:   ...
>         version: ...
>         kind:    ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deletionGroups:
  resources:
    - group:   ...
       version: ...
       kind:    ...
    - group:   ...
        version: ...
        kind:    ...
```

    ...
```

##### Example: delete certain resources first

In this example, the ConfigMaps and Secrets of the chart are deleted first. Only when all of these have gone, the
other resources will be deleted as usual.

```yaml

> deletionGroups:
>   - resources:
>       - group:   ""
>         version: "v1"
>         kind:    "configmaps"
>       - group:   ""
>         version: "v1"
>         kind:    "secrets"
>   - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>       type: namespaced-resources
>   - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>       type: cluster-scoped-resources
>   - predefinedResourceGroup: 
>       type: crds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deletionGroups:
  resources:
    - group:   ""
       version: "v1"
       kind:    "configmaps"
    - group:   ""
       version: "v1"
       kind:    "secrets"
  predefinedResourceGroups: 
    - type: namespaced-resources
    - type: cluster-scoped-resources
    - type: crds
```
